DOC-1902 Steps to enable IRSA roles for AL2023 AMIs on EKS clusters (#6935)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/troubleshooting/cluster-deployment.md

The following steps will help you troubleshoot errors in the event issues arise while deploying a cluster.

> ## Scenario - PV/PVC Stuck in Pending Status for EKS Cluster using AL2023 AMI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scenario - PV/PVC Stuck in Pending Status for EKS Cluster Using AL2023 AMI
```

After deploying an Amazon EKS cluster using an
[Amazon Linux 2023 (AL2023) Amazon Machine Image (AMI)](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md#assign-an-ami-to-a-node-pool),
PersistentVolumes (PVs) or PersistentVolumeClaims (PVCs) are stuck in a pending status.

```shell title="Example"
NAMESPACE   NAME                                 STATUS    VOLUME   CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS            VOLUMEATTRIBUTESCLASS   AGE   VOLUMEMODE
wordpress   data-wordpress-wordpress-mariadb-0   Pending                                      spectro-storage-class   <unset>                 16m   Filesystem
wordpress   wordpress-wordpress                  Pending                                      spectro-storage-class   <unset>                 16m   Filesystem
```

This issue can arise when an add-on pack or Helm chart that requires a PV or PVC is deployed to an existing cluster or

> during creation of a new cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while creating a new cluster.
```

The PV or PVC provisioning fails because IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) has not been configured for the Amazon
Elastic Block Store (EBS) Container Storage Interface (CSI). For instances launched on AL2023, IMDSv2 is enforced by

> default, and IRSA is the [recommended approach](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) to
> provide IAM permissions to Amazon EBS CSI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default, and IRSA is the [recommended approach](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/ebs-csi.html) for providing IAM permissions to Amazon EBS CSI.
```

### Debug Steps

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Ensure you are in the correct project scope.

3. From the left main menu, navigate to the **Profiles** page. Find and click on your cluster profile.

4. [Create a new version of the cluster profile](../profiles/cluster-profiles/modify-cluster-profiles/version-cluster-profile.md).

5. Select the **Kubernetes** layer of your cluster profile.

6. Use the YAML editor to configure IRSA roles for the `managedControlPlane` and `managedMachinePool`.

>    ```yaml hideClipboard title="Example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```yaml hideClipboard title="Example configuration"
```

   managedControlPlane:
   ---
   irsaRoles:
     - name: "{{.spectro.system.cluster.name}}-irsa-cni"
       policies:
         - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonEKS_CNI_Policy
       serviceAccount:
         name: aws-node
         namespace: kube-system
     - name: "{{.spectro.system.cluster.name}}-irsa-csi"
       policies:
         - arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AmazonEBSCSIDriverPolicy
   ---
   managedMachinePool:
     roleAdditionalPolicies:
       - "arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/service-role/AmazonEBSCSIDriverPolicy"
   ```

7. Click **Confirm Updates** after editing.

8. Select the **Storage** layer of your cluster profile.

9. Use the YAML editor to add an IAM role ARN annotation to the AWS EBS CSI Driver so that the IRSA role is correctly
   referenced. Replace `<aws-account-id>` with your AWS account ID.

>    ```yaml hideClipboard title="Example" {12}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```yaml hideClipboard title="Example configuration" {12}
```

   charts:
   ...
     aws-ebs-csi-driver:
     ...
       controller:
       ...
         serviceAccount:
           # A service account will be created for you if set to true. Set to false if you want to use your own.
           create: true
           name: ebs-csi-controller-sa
           annotations: {
             "eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn":"arn:aws:iam::<aws-account-id>:role/{{.spectro.system.cluster.name}}-irsa-csi"
           }
           ## Enable if EKS IAM for SA is used
           # eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: arn:<partition>:iam::<account>:role/ebs-csi-role
           automountServiceAccountToken: true
   ```

10. Update the custom labels for the AWS EBS CSI Driver to retrigger the deployment.

```yaml hideClipboard title="Example"
charts:
...
  aws-ebs-csi-driver:
  ...
    customLabels: {
      restart: "true"
    }
```

11. Click **Confirm Updates** after editing.

12. Click **Save Changes** on the cluster profile page.

13. Update your cluster to use the new cluster profile version that you created with these changes. Refer to
    [Update a Cluster](../clusters/cluster-management/cluster-updates.md#enablement) for guidance.

> 14. Wait for the repave of nodes and redeployment of the AWS EBS CSI Driver to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
14. Wait for the nodes to be repaved and the AWS EBS CSI Driver to be redeployed.
```
